\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename release-notes.info
@settitle CIMPLE 1.2.0 Release Notes

@setchapternewpage off

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Title Page:
@c
@c =============================================================================

@titlepage
@title CIMPLE 1.2.0 Release Notes
@author Michael E. Brasher
@author Jan 30, 2008
Copyright @copyright{} 2008 by Michael Brasher
@end titlepage

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Contents:
@c
@c =============================================================================

@contents

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Introduction
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Introduction

This document introduces CIMPLE 1.2.0 and explains what has changed since 
the last public release (CIMPLE 1.1.0). If you are unfamiliar with the
major changes introduced by CIMPLE 1.1.0, you might want to review them
by clicking here: @uref{http://www.cimple.org/downloads.html}.

@noindent
Chapter 1 describes what is new in this release. Chapter 2 discusses bugs fixed 
by this release. Chapter 3 explains how to migrate providers developed with 
earlier versions.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: What's New?
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter What's New?

This chapter covers new capabilities introduced by CIMPLE 1.2.0.

@c -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@section BREVITY

BREVITY is a new client interface that employs concrete CIM elements (classes
and methods). BREVITY is described in a presentation presented at the 2007
Management Developers Conference. For more information, please see 
@uref{http://www.cimple.org/CIMPLE-2007-MDC.pdf}.

@c -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@section Platform Support

CIMPLE 1.2.0 now supports the following platforms.

@itemize @bullet
@item Linux-X86 32-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-X86 64-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-IA64 64-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-S390 32-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-S390 64-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-PPC 32-bit, GNU C++
@item Linux-PPC 64-bit, GNU C++
@item Darwin-X86-32-bit, GNU C++
@item Solaris-SPARC-64-bit, GNU C++
@item VxWorks-XScale-32-bit, GNU C++
@item Windows-X86-32-bit, MSVC
@item Windows-X86-64-bit, MSVC
@end itemize

@noindent
The following were added in this realease.

@itemize
@item Darwin-X86-32-bit, GNU C++
@item Solaris-SPARC-64-bit, GNU C++
@item VxWorks-XScale-32-bit, GNU C++
@end itemize

@c -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@section New @code{genmak} Tool

The new @code{genmak} tool generates provider makefiles automatically (the
CIMPLE build system is now installed by the install target). The following
generates a makefile that builds a library named "xyz" from a set of sources.

@example
$ genmak xyz *.cpp
@end example

@noindent
The @code{genproj} command (which runs genclass, genprov, and genmod) also
runs genmak, when passed the @code{-m} option.

@noindent
Developers may continue to write their own makefiles if they prefer. This tool
is simply a convenience that simplifies provider development.

@section Logging Facility

This version introduces a logging facility that may be used in the provider.
Logging is only enabled when CIMPLE is configured with debug. For example:

@example
$ ./configure --enable-debug ...
@end example

@noindent
To enable logging, you must create the following file.

@example
$HOME/.cimplerc
@end example

@noindent
This file must contain a line that sets the logging level. For exmaple:

@example
LOG_LEVEL=DBG
@end example

@noindent
@code{LOG_LEVEL} must be set to one of the following.

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{FATAL}
@item @code{ERR}
@item @code{WARN}
@item @code{INFO}
@item @code{DBG}
@end itemize

@noindent
All log entries are written to:

@example
$HOME/.cimple/messages
@end example

@noindent
Providers use the logging by calling the @code{log} function. For example:

@example
log(LL_DBG, __FILE__, __LINE__, "my name is %s; my age is %d", "John", 12);
@end example

@noindent
There are five log levels:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{LL_FATAL}
@item @code{LL_ERR}
@item @code{LL_WARN}
@item @code{LL_INFO}
@item @code{LL_DBG}
@end itemize

@noindent
Shortcut macros are provided for each log level to simplify the invocation
of @code{log}. For example:

@example
CIMPLE_DBG(("my name is %s; my age is %d", "John", 12));
@end example

@noindent
In addition to provider generated log entries, the CIMPLE adapters themselves
make log entries for warnings and errors during the normal operation of 
CIMPLE. We recommend configuring with debug and watching for log messages
during provider development.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Bug Fixes
@c
@c ============================================================================= 
@chapter Bug Fixes

This release fixes the bugs described below (all critical bugs were addressed 
by earlier maintenance releases).

@c -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@section CMPI Header Compliation Errors

This release works around errors in the the CMPI headers released last year on 
the OpenGroup site. CIMPLE now compiles with all known CMPI headers.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Migration Notes
@c
@c =============================================================================
@chapter Migration Notes

Always regenerate classes, providers, and modules when using a new version
of CIMPLE. This is a trivial matter of running @code{genrpoj} as follows:

@example
$ genproj MODULE-NAME CLASS-1 CLASS-2 ... CLASS-N
@end example

@noindent
This regenerates the classes and module and will patch your providers
if necessary. This operation will not require any rework on your part. Just
regnerate, clean, and remake.

@bye
