\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename wmi.info
@settitle Using the WMI Adapter for CIMPLE

@setchapternewpage off

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Title Page:
@c
@c =============================================================================

@titlepage
@title Using the WMI Adapter for CIMPLE
@author Michael E. Brasher, Karl Schopmeyer
@author November 4, 2008
Copyright @copyright{} 2008 by Michael Brasher, Karl Schopmeyer

Version 1.1, 15 December 2008
@end titlepage

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Contents:
@c
@c =============================================================================

@contents

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Introduction
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Introduction

This document explains how to use the WMI adapter for CIMPLE. The WMI Adapter
enables CIMPLE providers to work with the Windows Management Instrumentation 
(WMI) server. The following chapters explain how to:

@itemize @bullet
@item install CIMPLE for WMI
@item develop a trivial provider
@item register the WMI provider
@item verify the provider
@end itemize

@noindent
Except for a few minor details, provider developement for WMI is similar to
developing providers for other servers. After reading this guide, you will
be able to make existing CIMPLE providers work with WMI.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: What's New?
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Installing CIMPLE for WMI

The WMI adpater compiles today with a variety of Microsoft compilers
including

VC2003 with the service pack
VC2005 with the service pack
VC2008

@noindent
It has not been tested with VC 6. Note that the requirement for the
platform or windows SDK varies by compiler version.  In general the
goal is to not require the SDK but the current versions of the wmi
adapter depend on the SDK for a few functions.

@noindent
To build CIMPLE and the WMI adapter, open a Windows terminal session
(@code{cmd.exe}). Run the Visual Studio setup scripts. Verify that the Visual 
Studio C++ compiler is on your path (@code{cl.exe}). Obtain GNU make 
(@code{make.exe}) and add it to your path. GNU make for Windows is available 
from the "tools" link on the OpenPegasus home page 
(see @uref{http://openpegasus.org}). Note that the make provided by
Micrososft is not compatible with the cimple make files. You must use
GNU make.

@noindent
Unpack the CIMPLE distribution. From the root of the distribution type.

@example
C:\> configure.bat --bindir=c:/windows/system32 --enable-wmi
@end example

@noindent
Next build CIMPLE by typing:

@example
C:\> make
@end example

@noindent
Finally, install CIMPLE as follows:

@example
C:\> make install
@end example

@noindent
This installs the programs and DLLs under:

@example
C:\windows\system32
@end example

@noindent
All other CIMPLE files are installed under:

@example
C:\cimple
@end example

@noindent
You may uninstall CIMPLE later by typing:

@example
C:\> make uninstall
@end example

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Building a trivial provider
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Building a trivial provider

This chapter explains how to build a trivial provider. For the most part, it
is like building a CIMPLE provider for other servers, but there are a few
minor differences.

@noindent
We start with the following MOF definition (which we place in
@code{repository.mof}).This example is part of the cimple distribution
in in the directory @code{cimple/src/wmi/person}.

@example
[dynamic, provider("Person")]
class Person
@{
    [Key] string SSN;
    [Key] string FirstName;
    [Key] string LastName;

    [implemented]
    uint32 foo([in] string arg);
@};
@end example

@noindent
The @code{dynamic} and @code{implemented} qualifiers are
unique to WMI.  They are not part of the currently defined qualifier
set in the DMTF specifications. Therefore, we may be required to add
them to the qualifier definitions in qualifiers.mof in the CIM mof
schema to get the class definition to compile with genclass. They have
been inserted in the schemas provided. The definitions that must be
inserted are:

@example
qualifiers.mof:Qualifier Dynamic : boolean = false,
qualifiers.mof:Qualifier Implemented : boolean = false,
@end example

The @code{provider} qualifier is also required for wmi provider
registration but it should be part of the existing DMTF qualifier
definitions either  in qualifiers.mof or optionalqualifiers.mof.
The value for this provider MUST match the name of the provider DLL
(without the extension).

@noindent
Next we use the @code{genproj} command to generate the classes, provider,
and module.

@example
C:\> genproj Person Person
Created Person.h
Created Person.cpp
created repository.h
Created repository.cpp
Created Person_Provider.h
Created Person_Provider.cpp
Created module.cpp
Created guid.h
Created register.mof
@end example

@noindent
This generates the following files:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{Person.h} - the Person class declaration
@item @code{Person.cpp} - the Person class definition
@item @code{repository.h} - the class repository declarations
@item @code{repository.cpp} - the class repository definitions
@item @code{Person_Provider.h} - the Person provider declaration
@item @code{Person_Provider.cpp} - the Person provider methods
@item @code{module.cpp} - the WMI entry points.
@item @code{guid.h} - the GUID that uniquely identifies the provider COM server.
@item @code{register.mof} - the WMI registration instances.
@end itemize

@noindent
Next we must create a @code{link.def} file shown below.

@example
LIBRARY "Person.dll"

EXPORTS
        DllMain PRIVATE
        DllCanUnloadNow PRIVATE
        DllGetClassObject PRIVATE
        DllRegisterServer PRIVATE
        DllUnregisterServer PRIVATE
@end example

@noindent
Then we create the following Makefile.

@example
## TOP defines location of the cimple mak directory
TOP=../../..
include $(TOP)/mak/config.mak

LIBRARY = Person
SOURCES = Person.cpp Person_Provider.cpp module.cpp repository.cpp
LIBRARIES = cimplewmiadap cimple
EXTRA_LINK_FLAGS = /def:link.def
EXTRA_SYS_LIBS = ole32.lib oleaut32.lib
DEFINES += -DCIMPLE_WMI_MODULE

include $(TOP)/mak/rules.mak
@end example

@noindent
Finally, we build the provider as shown below.

@example
C:\> make
@end example

@noindent
This creates a DLL called @code{Person.dll}.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Registering a WMI provider
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Registering a WMI provider

@noindent This chapter shows how to register a WMI provider using the
Microsoft tools. First we must copy the provider DLL to the WMI
providers directory, Usually located here:

@example
C:\windows\system32\wbem\
@end example

@noindent
Second we use the WMI MOF compiler to add our classes to the CIM
repository as shown below.

@example
mofcomp repository.mof
@end example

@noindent
Third we register our provider as follows.

@example
mofcomp register.mof
@end example

@noindent
Finally, we register our WMI provider as a COM server:

@example
regsvr32 /s C:\windows\system32\wbem\Person.dll
@end example

@noindent
In the examples provided with cimple, these operations are integrated
into the Makefile provided as the target reg.

@c =============================================================================
@c
@c Chapter: Verifying a WMI provider
@c
@c =============================================================================

@chapter Verifying a WMI provider

There several tools available help verify the providers once it
installed including:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{cimbrowser.exe} - Part of a wmi toolset available from Micrososft under the name CIMTest.  This is a complete graphic wmi cim browser.
@item @code{wbemtest.exe} - Client program that executes wmi cim operations from a  set of check boxes. 
@end itemize

@noindent
Either of these tools is helpful to  verify the providers you write with CIMPLE.
You may also use many other WMI client tools. 

@noindent
In any case, to verify this first provider you should confirm that the
Person class was installed in the property namespace (normally
Root/cimv2) and that the provider returns two instances of the Person
class.

@noindent
You can validate the response from the defined method as follows:

TBD


@noindent
For a full discussion of these tools and more information on wmi, see
the book "Developing WMI solutions: A Guide to Windows Management
Instrumentation" by Craig Tunstall and Gwyn Cole.

@bye
